Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today Allad and I are here with Jacob
Hellbert, the under secretary of state
designate for economic growth, energy
and the environment, co-founder of the
Hill and Valley Forum: Connecting
Silicon Valley to policy makers in DC
and author of the book The Wires of War:
Technology and the Global Struggle for
Power. We talk about what America needs
to change about its global supply chain,
why nuclear is the key to energy
abundance, the return of American
manufacturing, and super intelligence as
a means for productivity and economic
growth. Jacob, thanks so much for being
here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So, very exciting uh in terms of your
new role as under secretary for um
economic growth, energy, and the
environment. uh can you start by just
like telling us a little bit about what
your initial agenda is or what you're
excited about?
>> A few of the topics that I discussed in
my opening statement and my Senate
confirmation are um focused on securing
our supply chains. Our economy is
extremely over reliant on a supply chain
system that's very brittle. We have 90%
reliance on uh uh critical minerals that
are refined in China, on semiconductors
that are manufactured in Taiwan. Um, we
have one of the best innovation
ecosystems in the world, but that
innovation ecosystem is sitting on top
of a supply chain system that is very
exposed to potential geopolitical
disruptions. And so helping move the
needle to uh forge new partnerships with
other countries to secure that is is
indispensable. uh as well as supporting
ongoing efforts by the administration to
reshore as much as we can right here in
the US would really go a long way to
help give our builders the tools that
they need to do what they do best which
is build products people love that are
disruptive and that help grow the
American economy. What what are some of
those things that you think are most
important to reshore? And I I think you
also have sort of a broader purview of
the anatomy of the US economy changing
and mutating and could you actually give
us the big picture and then kind of the
specifics in terms of how you think
things are shifting and then what do you
think is most important to kind of bring
back?
>> Yeah, totally. So, one of the
fascinating things about the this
current era and and decade that we're in
is um we're actually really seeing the
juxaposition between the macroeconomic
effects of the policies implemented by
the Trump administration uh juxtaposed
with um in incredibly powerful
technological shifts especially in
artificial intelligence. And what I mean
by that is President Trump came in and
instated a blitz creek of policy
reforms, uh, fast-tracking data center
permits. Uh, on day one, he rolled out
an EO to unleash American energy to
facilitate and support, um, the
production to surge production capacity
for energy sources like oil, oil, gas,
and nuclear um, as well as clean,
beautiful coal, as he says. Um, and and
so the the net effect of all of these
different policies uh combined with
incredibly fast-paced progress in
artificial intelligence is actually um
changing uh the makeup of our economy.
And we're we're starting to see that in
the data because for a long time the
American economy was primarily a
consumption-driven economy. We have, you
know, at different points in time for
the last few decades been between 70 and
80% consumption driven. Over two-thirds
of our economy have been entirely driven
by services. Um, and about 10% has been
manufacturing.
And we're starting to see those numbers
move. And um, the manufacturing makeup
of our economy as a share of GDP has
remained as of now um, roughly the same.
But that's a lagging indicator. The more
interesting one is we're seeing massive
capex investment as you guys know. Um
that has really picked up in a
statistically significant way. Um it's
it's over 2% of GDP right now and it's
probably going to double by next year.
Part of that is um the result of tax
incentives. Part of that is just making
it easier to um to get permitting
because as you guys know a lot of this
stuff boils down to how do you compress
the window when you want to make a capex
investment um you know the business
people make a decision about whether or
not it's going to take seven years or 5
years to actually get something up and
running and compressing that window as
much as possible actually uh really
moves the needle. Are there common
areas, sorry to interrupt you, but are
there common areas of capex that you're
seeing in particular? Is it defense? Is
it space? Is it industrial? Is it other
types of manufacturing? Is it biotech?
I'm just sort of curious if there's like
a clear breakdown of
>> I I've seen um analysis that has uh that
basically says that it's added a full
point of GDP um just for AI uh in the
last year. Um which is a lot because the
economy grew 3%. So if a third of that
came from AI infrastructure, that's that
that's that's a lot. Um energy
infrastructure is is another really big
one. Um for the first time since 2008,
we're actually seeing an uptick in in uh
national demand for energy. Um our total
electricity supply has remained has
flatlined since 2008, which is a just an
interesting statistic that I've recently
come across and and now we're seeing
that trend change. Um and um the other
one is um raw industrials. So things
like mineral production, the DoD has
forged a strategic partnership with a
firm called MP Materials for $750
million um uh to uh reboot domestic uh
rare earth magnet production. And um uh
the last one is to you know one that you
touched upon a lot which is we're seeing
a global trend across the world where
governments are spending a lot more on
defense. a record high was reached this
year with 2.7 trillion in global
spending on defense. Um 60% of that came
from you know countries that very large
countries like the the US, China,
Russia, India uh and Germany. And uh and
the big trillion dollar question is what
will they spend that money on? And the
answer might actually really define uh
the shape of hard power in the 21st
century. Um, as you guys know, I mean, a
government is a little bit like a
company if you don't allocate capital
efficiently and you actually end up
wasting it. You could have a situation
where some of these governments have
militaries that are paper tigers and and
that's where, you know, and you're kind
of seeing a little bit of a window into
this in Ukraine um where AI is really AI
and autonomy is really changing uh
outcomes on the battlefield. So, those
different trends are are incredibly
fascinating to watch. What made you
decide that you um wanted to make supply
chain security like the one of the
primary things you addressed early? Like
how does the vulnerability to China and
others from minerals and components end
up mattering?
>> Yeah. So that that's such an important
question and the answer is that um China
is obviously a systemic um rival. You
know, some people say it's an adversary.
Um, regardless of of the flavor that one
wants to characterize it with, they're
definitely a rival. They have
fundamentally a different view of how
the world should be run than we do. And
um, and a lot of what they have been
doing internationally to compete with us
um, really flows from is an outflow of
the fact that they are the world's
factory floor. So their presence in
Africa, I'm sure you guys have read
articles that lament how China's taken
over Africa. They're all over Latin
America. They have the Belt and Road
Initiative. All of that is a byproduct
of the fact that they produce the lion's
share of the world's manufacturing
output. So they import raw materials
from Africa. They manufacture it in
China and they reexport it everywhere
else. And so if you solve the trade
imbalance issue with China, you actually
address all of the peripheral issues
with their influence in all of these
third markets. And so it is a national
security issue to do that because
obviously their footprint in some of
these places has proven problematic. But
it's also good for our companies because
as we've seen with their export controls
on rare earth magnets, the last thing we
need as a country is for our best
companies to beg Beijing for permission
uh to get um licenses for rare earth
magnets in order to manufacture cutting
edge technological products.
>> What's a solution of that? Because if
you look at rare earth minerals for
example um anomagnets are sort of a a
subset or you know uh they actually
aren't that rare right there's huge
deposits in Canada there's big deposits
in the US there's deposits in India um
you know fundamentally they're not
actually rare but they're called rare
earth and then they're fundamentally
mined in a small subset of countries
that actually have access to them.
Should the US be changing its mining
policy around this? Should we be should
Canada I'm sort of curious how you think
about how to address that because
there's a few different ways to approach
it. One is just to mine more in certain
places.
>> China only emerged as a rare earth
mining superpower about 10 years ago. It
came out uh in 2015 with its made in
China 2025 plan. And from that date
onwards, we actually saw China's um
refining activity of rare earth uh
materials skyrocket. So what happened
was they pursued a very aggressive
industrial policy to build uh refinering
capacity in China. Uh and they started
to flood the market which sunk the price
and started to really squeeze refineries
located in the west in in uh Australia
and Canada and in the United States. We
actually have refineries historically.
We have had refineries and uh there is a
huge refinery in Tennessee. Um there
there are refineries in Arizona and
Georgia and um and so the the solution
to help put the genie back in the bottle
is I think actually the DoD's deal with
MP materials offers a good template
which is you need an anchor buyer and
and an end customer and you need a price
floor. So you need to agree with the
supplier in this case MP materials on a
floor for a price because what happens
when uh these big offtake agreements um
when when a western refinery tries to
compete with China is China will
artificially sink the price the global
price depress it in order to put western
alternatives out of business and then
they raise the price again which is
classic monopolistic behavior. um we can
fix that with offtake agreements and a
price floor and I think the the MP DoD
deal offers a good blueprint for that
>> when you uh project forward from as
you're talking about some of the leading
indicators on capex and what's possible
in terms of re-engineering trade flows
like if it's not just consumption like
what do you imagine makeup of the
American economy can be in terms of
manufacturing other elements over like
the next 10 years because I I think a
lot of people took as a given like, oh,
American labor costs are just too high.
Like, it's a service economy. Now,
>> in school, they used to teach us that it
was almost part of a natural
evolutionary process that when you reach
a mature stage in economic development,
you know, you uh your economy evolves
into a service economy and it's just the
natural order of things. And and I
actually think AI um offers advanced
economies so to speak um uh a massive
opportunity to to violate that
narrative. Isn't that narrative violated
traditionally traditionally by Europe as
well? So if you look for example the
German industrial base or totally you
know there's lots of examples in the
western world where that didn't happen.
And so it seems like the
>> yes
>> underlying premise was kind of something
that became self-fulfilling in the US
but didn't necessarily translate into a
number of other western economies at
all.
>> Completely completely and I think so I
mean the fascinating thing is um you
know as as you guys know um in Peter
Thiel's 0ero to1 he talks about how you
can either compete vertically or
horizontally. uh horizontally is
globalization, vertical vertical
competition is um is uh innovation. And
I think the basic paradigm is um for a
lot of the 2000s we were really growing
our economy horizontally through
globalization and we weren't really
growing a whole lot vertically. And the
interesting thing is the last you know 7
years or so I would argue um vertical
and vertical growth has actually picked
up a lot and um and and to to really
appreciate the potential impact that AI
can have on productivity. If we increase
productivity, it will totally erode the
competitive advantages uh in labor costs
that developing countries have and we
have an opportunity to re-industrialize
and to appreciate the extent to which AI
can give us that opportunity. I think
you can look at history and the first
industrial revolution when industrial
output in Britain because Britain
industrialized. China at the time did
not. So it's it's an interesting compar
you know comparison because Britain was
obviously a tiny country by population
from a population standpoint and a much
more advanced uh country than China. But
because of technology, Britain had an
industrial output per capita that was
over 50 times the industrial output uh
per capita of China. And Britain's GDP
far surpassed China. China's GDP in um
in the 1800s totally collapsed. Uh it
went from being about a third of the
world economy in 1800 down to uh about 7
12% in 1913. And so it just shows the
power of technology. Today you can see
differences between Israel and Nigeria.
Nigeria is a huge country from a
population standpoint. And Israel, a
tiny country that's smaller than New
Jersey, has a bigger GDP and a stronger
military and it's all because of
technology. And so the people who say
that we can't re-industrialize because
China has a bigger population or, you
know, our people are more expensive, I
think are totally missing the plot. Um I
think I'm a believer that AI will uh far
from replacing humans altogether will
actually give humans superpowers um
workers superpowers and will massively
increase productivity. And I've become
somewhat fascinated with this
macroeconomic theory called Jevans
paradox which is that um the the basic
uh economic principle that when you have
a technology that massively increases
efficiency demand for in a resource
demand for that resource actually
increases. It doesn't decrease uh
because the relative cost of that
resource goes down. So that's my basic
take uh my optimistic take for
manufacturing in America. So I I feel
like you are uh perhaps the first policy
maker I've talked to whose first
instinct on AI is like it's about
productivity versus you know addressing
some very real risks. But you know we
were talking and you said to me like
what if the economy was 45 trillion
right like we there um there are
historical analogies for that kind of
increase in productivity but as you also
recognize it's not the dominant
narrative today around AI like what do
you think will help more people see that
opportunity or what do you think they
should understand about that potential
productivity gain? Yeah. So, um I guess
I mean the way that I would frame it
differently is if you believe that
Aentic AI is going to make each
individual worker um uh be able to do a
lot more stuff. If you're a company uh
or if you're a country, you bas you bas
you're basically looking at two
outcomes. um if you're a country with a
GDP of 10 trillion and all of a sudden
um you only need you know uh a tenth of
the workers to perform u the the task
that uh 100 workers um previously were
able to perform. You either need a lot
less workers or the totality of your
workers will produce 10 times more. And
and I actually think companies will
choose far from laying off workers, I
think companies will choose to increase
output because um if they don't their
competitors will and and if and if you
believe that uh uh at a from a first
principle standpoint that human wants
are unlimited uh which I would argue
they are. I mean just look at our you
know everything we consume today
compared to our grandparents. Um, I
think we're looking at a world that's
just going to produce a lot more stuff
and workers will just do a much bigger
range of things um because of AI. And so
I'm actually quite optimistic about the
future of work.
>> You've talked a little bit about this
being kind of the super intelligent
century. Could you explain what that
means? Has it started? Is it about to
start? Like how do you think about that
concept?
>> We're starting to see the contours of a
totally new world. And um if you think
about what the narrative was 10 years
ago um 10 years ago the narrative was
the uh the 21st century is going to be
the Chinese century or you know the
century where the east rises so to
speak. What it's proving today um is I
actually think the defining feature of
this century is not the rising of the
east or the rise of China. It's really
the rise of super intelligence. And the
way that we're seeing this change the
global landscape is on the one hand I
think um we're we're going to we're
likely to see a second great divergence.
So for the first time since the first
industrial revolution, I think we're
going to see the economies that are
first movers in uh integrating AI into
their economy reap massive productivity
and growth benefits and start to leaprog
the rest of the world that uh is lagging
in AI adoption. Number two, and a
byproduct of this is is a collapse of
the cheap labor, the cheap labor
advantage that a lot of developing
economies have benefited from for the
last 50 years. The third big feature um
which really hasn't been discussed a lot
in the press is is that um I is that
Europe's economy has been collapsing.
And so, you know, the narrative today
isn't that China's rising. The plot
twist that no one saw coming is that
it's it's actually Europe that's just
coll completely collapsing. So, Europe's
economy went from being 65% of global
GDP in the early 20th century to roughly
a third in the 80s and 90s and now it's
down to 15% of global GDP.
>> What are the drivers of that? like are
there specific policy things that
happened, specific decisions? The
Europeans blame it on the oil shock of
the 70s, but you know, that was 50 years
ago. So, I would, you know, reasonable
people have different takes. I would
argue that um you can really just um uh
that that they missed the boat on a lot
of really big technological revolutions.
They missed the boat on uh you know,
they were very late to adopt the
internet. they were very late to embrace
the, you know, digital and and uh
internet revolution and the the consumer
app revolution. Um, and and now with the
AI act that the EU passed and the
digital services tax, they just keep
shooting themselves in the foot. And I
think the AI act is basically
single-handedly ensuring that Europe
will not be a first mover in AI because
it's now subject to these incredibly
punitive set of rules. And so, you know,
the and that's actually a great segue to
uh another interesting feature which is
I find to be a total plot twist is um
the part of the world that we're really
seeing surging is the Middle East. Um
which is just really interesting because
when you consider that GDP per capita in
the UAE and Israel is higher than in
France today, which is wild. It's higher
than in South Korea. Um, and so you're
seeing parts of the Middle East actually
emerge in completely unexpected ways
because I think in the West we've long
talked about the Middle East um as a war
torn region, a region that struggles
with all kinds of geopolitical
instability issues and regional
conflicts. And you're seeing a totally
new Middle East emerge. You're seeing
leaders in the Middle East that are
super tech forward. And you know, a a
silver lining of the recent conflict is
Iran's influence in the region being
greatly diminished actually paves the
way for a much much more peaceful region
that's not being held hostage every day
to terrorist groups. So I find the
Middle East fascinating. The last two
features are um I think the US and China
are going to be locked in a very
aggressive race to control the
scaffolding of the AI architecture for
the world. So they're going to you know
obviously the rest of the world at one
point or another will need to import
intelligence. Um a lot of them will not
need the super fancy black wall chips.
they'll need the normal stuff, but who
sells them that whether it'll be Nvidia
or Huawei will really make a huge
difference because um both uh companies
and the Chinese will definitely bundle
the stack. So they'll have AI out of the
box with the Ascend platform and
DeepSeek and all these Chinese tools and
the Chinese are very good at
aggressively competing for market share.
So um so obviously having a strategy to
compete uh in the global south and third
markets will be important and the last
is the one that we talked about earlier
which is the global rearmament across
the world.
>> How do you think about um open source in
that context because really a lot of the
Chinese companies are pushing open
source models and those um are ones that
can be optimized in all sorts of ways by
by enterprises and others by government
etc. there's a lot of sort of sovereign
AI rising. Um in the US obviously we
have Meta as a champion for open source
in Europe. There's mistral but my sense
is that uh there's a lot of um Chinese
government involvement in some of these
open source models in terms of funding
them or promoting them or accelerating
them. Uh what role if any do you think
the US government should play in our own
sort of open source AI ecosystem? Well,
I think we need to have a strategy to
figure out how we promote American uh
the American stack um overseas and
whether that's through open source or um
or through other models. Um I mean the I
would argue again reasonable people have
different takes on you know what
happened with DeepSeek. I think the
basic building blocks of um the the main
takeaways of of how DeepS seek achieved
the performance uh its performance was
um incremental efficiency gains. Um they
lied about their compute capacity
because they have a billion dollar
cluster and they distilled Chad GPT's
model weights. So while Deepseek is open
source, I would argue it's not really
open source if they stole the model
weights from a model that is um is
closed source. Um, with that being said,
it will definitely be an integral part
of China's strategy to try to get market
share uh by by using the open source
ecosystem. And so in that sense, I think
Meta's efforts are very important. Um,
but um but I think having a holistic
approach to make sure that we have the
very best models and they're as widely
used is super important. What do you
think is the relevance of um the Middle
East given their level of investment and
this you know set of leadership that is
very lean forward on AI and you know I
want to go like broadly into energy but
the availability of um energy for
gigawatt data centers there uh and plus
like to this fight right is it like a
swing vote is it the capital that
matters like do you believe in these
compute partnerships like should they be
a closer ally
>> yeah well I think the Middle East is
actually, you know, has the potential
for being a completely new kind of
partner for the US. Um, and the reason
is that, um, first of all, they actively
say they want to move in a much more
pro-american direction, which is
obviously a good start. Um, second of
all, as a country, we're energy
constrained. So, we can expand our
energy supply and obviously the
administration and along with the
private sector is actively working to do
that. But that's going to take time. And
so if we want to move really fast,
working with partners that have abundant
cheap energy offers our companies an
opportunity to actually compete on um
raw uh uh energy powers combined with
compute and speed with speed against uh
against China's approach. Um the trick
there is really going to be finding the
right framework that satisfies security
concerns that national security
professionals have in Washington. Some
of those concerns are that include that
we want to make sure that China doesn't
get access to those clusters, but I
think it's eminently doable and and
ultimately I know that uh this is
something that the administration is is
looking at taking a close look at. Maybe
we can move to that then just given
we're like in the low single digits at
best of actual energy production growth
in the US right now and people have said
numbers like we need to double energy
production in the United States maybe
beyond that if you um believe we're
going to be a manufacturing hub again
like how do we like what's a feasible
way to get there like and close that gap
>> I I think we need nuclear energy um
there's no doubt in my mind that nuclear
energy uh is offers the the best path
and this is where a partnership with the
Middle East could actually could also be
very interesting because the president
has done a superb job at securing very
very large foreign investment
commitments in the into the United
States. Um there's a lot of room for
those commitments to be channeled
towards productivity enhancing areas and
I would argue energy nuclear energy
infrastructure is a productivity
enhancing area because it makes energy
our electricity and energy supply more
abundant cheaper. We know from 200 years
of history that there is a direct
correlation between the cost of of
energy and economic growth. um the cost
of of electricity in the US is half of
the cost of electricity in Europe. And
we see that difference play out in GDP
growth. Um and so but the the challenge
is that large nuclear plants that
actually produce a lot of energy um take
a lot of capex. They're very expensive.
They're dozens of billions of dollars.
They also take sometimes seven years to
build. Now, the administration is doing
a superb job at um taking a very hard
look at regulations and figuring out
ways of actually compressing that
window, but it it's still very capital
intensive. And so, working with um
partners, including in the Middle East,
to um make sure that we actually get
those projects capitalized could
actually potentially really move the
needle. I think it's kind of interesting
because I think in the US we're still at
what 17 18% nuclear power. Yeah. From
the perspective of the overall base and
we haven't really um added any capacity
roughly since the 70s.
>> Yeah.
>> And so 50 years later we're at like 17
18% of all of our output. Um which is
kind of amazing with minimal accidents
with high safety profiles.
>> Yeah.
>> Clean energy. You know it's it's um it's
dramatic that that didn't really take
off as an energy source. Uh do what do
you think is the path to actually
deploying more nuclear? Because I know
that there's some initiatives from the
DoD there's some um initiatives more
broadly from the government. Is there
like an initial entry point or starting
point to actually start to rebuild our
nuclear industry or do you think it's
still TBD in terms of the right policy
approach?
>> I mean I think it really starts with
policy and certainty. So you have I mean
if compressing the window has a huge
impact on the cost analysis that a lot
of that that a lot of investors make um
uh when they decide whether or not to
invest. And then as far as pockets of
money go, um, you know, there are not
too, but but to pause really quick on
that first point, I I looked into this
years ago. And I remember seeing that,
um, a lot of the cost of nuclear is
actually financing cost overruns where
you start building a plant. Uh, there's
protests and other things organized
against the plant. There's other
regulatory red tape that suddenly crops
up and a five or six year project
suddenly takes 12 years and you have
huge capex um, loans that are sort of
put out against that. And so to your
point on the time frame, a you're you're
losing time on ramping up the actual
plant, right? You start producing energy
later and making money later, but also
those delays are incredibly costly from
a financing perspective.
>> Um, and and as as you know, when you
have delays like that, the costs
compound because you're paying interest
on loans, because you're paying legal
fees. And so it's not even just a
perfectly linear extension of the cost.
it's you're actually you know your costs
actually go up on a compounding curve
and so um yeah and so the time value of
money with nuclear invest uh energy
investments is actually super valuable
and the one of the ways in which the US
government has an opportunity and you
know if confirmed I hope to help play a
role in is um is historically um this
this uh government body called CPHAS has
uh scrutin iz very heavily foreign
investment in critical infrastructure
including in nuclear facilities. Um my
hope is that there's an opportunity to
actually create partnerships with
strategic foreign investors to be able
to absorb foreign investment in order to
use that capital to actually boost our
domestic energy supply. because there is
so much capital that's been committed,
it would be beneficial for the country
to use some of it to expand our overall
electricity supply.
>> Would you imagine um like being more the
administration being more directive in
this area because if you look at some of
the analogies, it doesn't have to take a
decade to build a nuclear plant
including in you know first world
countries like South Korea, right? um
they chose reference designs and they
sort of just made industrial policy
about it. Um like how do you how do you
think about the feasibility of like that
sort of directed investment in the US?
>> I mean I think it's eminently doable and
I actually think it's doable with just
the right incentives. I think there
isn't even uh that much you know
stateled direction that's necessary. I
think if you um if you really um um
reduce the the the barriers, the
regulatory barriers and the costs um you
can you can actually create the right
environment to direct a lot of that
capital and then the government has to
um has to basically signal to the market
that uh the committee on foreign
investment in the US CPHAS will not
block foreign investment you know from
trusted partners into this sector. Um
because energy has historically been
considered rightfully so critical
infrastructure and therefore foreign
investment is subject to all kinds of
scrutiny. But we can actually channel
investment from trusted partners into
this sector um uh to grow our energy
supply. Um, and the the the one point
that I'd add is the one thing France got
right in the last 45 years is it it it
actually gets 75% of its total energy
supply from nuclear. Now, they don't
have natural gas like we do. They don't
have, you know, oil rigs like we do.
We're very blessed as a country because
we have a lot of resources. But they
prove that even in a a a country that
has an an insane regulatory burden, you
can actually get really statistically
meaningful numbers of electricity from
nuclear. A lot rightfully pointed out
that some statistics say that our data
center capacity will require us to
double our overall electricity
production um um in the 2030s. Um we c I
think it's possible to do that and and
Sarah you pointed out that if we want to
re-industrialize
you know th those numbers might even be
higher and that's and that's totally
true and the way we get there I think
definitely runs through nuclear it also
runs through natural gas through clean
coal through I think we really need an
all of the above approach but nuclear
just provides a massive amount of very
lowcost energy so uh whatever we can do
to turbocharge that I think would be
very meaningful
>> I I think it's it's actually just like
very promising to me that um even the
scale of some of the shape scale and
shape of demand really matches nuclear
in the US right I I mean like I look at
the data center demand all the time but
people are very committed to largecale
data center projects in 28 and 29 and
like that's not quite long enough but
like you have the the desire to build
data centers that actually take all of
the energy from a single large nuclear
plant. And so like the matching problem
should give us a huge advantage here.
>> Yeah. And that's where I think you
really um sort of start to see uh a
picture of a totally new American
economy where you know we used to be um
consumptiondriven, very low investment,
um you know, stagnant energy supply to
uh and a GDP growth between 1 and 3%.
And we're moving to this new world where
it's we're going to be a high investment
economy that's basically going to invest
between two and 4% of GDP in private
capex investment which is massive. um um
the growth band could potent you know a
high productivity a country where
productivity is actually increasing
meaningfully in a way that compounds and
starts to shift the GDP growth band from
1 to 3% potentially somewhere between 3
and 5% according to a Goldman Sachs
study the makeup of GDP starting to
shift from consumption and services back
towards a healthier balance with
manufacturing and industrial activity
It's a totally new country. Um, and I
find that super exciting.
>> One last question for you on just like
what other parts of the economy you
focus on. So there's energy, there's
obviously intelligence. Um, there's sort
of inputs and um rare earth uh magnets
and minerals and like what other are
there other domains where you think
competitiveness is like essential from a
security perspective or from a strategic
perspective? Yeah. So I tend to think of
of my work being very supply chain
focused is because um it allows it gives
me a mental framework for thinking about
these issues holistically. Um by looking
at the supply chain as a layered pyramid
that uh includes energy, minerals, uh
component manufacturing, semiconductor
manufacturing, data centers, models and
apps. And and I think you know you you
as a country we kind of need a a
strategy that is holistic at the
different layers of the supply chain. Um
we're actually in a really good position
at most of them. We have abundant energy
although we need to increase our supply.
Um we we're our our biggest exposure
points are component manufacturing,
semiconductor manufacturing and
minerals. And you know there's a lot
that we can do to move the needle there.
Um but but transportation logistics is
another really interesting um really
interesting area where um policy can
actually help play play a role. And the
Chinese have been masters at, you know,
through their belt and road initiative
at actually having a supply chain plan
that includes a global transportation
logistic network to get minerals from
Africa back to China, refined in China,
exported back everywhere else. And and I
think we need as you know we used to do
this with the Panama Canal with you know
these big investments that we used to
make in transportation, logistics,
infrastructure. And I think the
president's appetite for having a very
robust economic policy agenda is
exciting because it gives us an
opportunity to actually um take a hard
look at things that as a country we
haven't done in a while including um in
you know uh uh reimagining how we move
goods in a supply chain system that
looks different than the one that we
have today. And we can use technology to
leapfrog uh we can use autonomous
technology to leaprog old
infrastructure. So I think there's a lot
of opportunity there.
>> One last question for you Jacob. Uh we
you know have a predominantly
techfocused audience like what should
they understand about uh the way they
should interact with the administration
or their the administration's stance on
the technology industry's role in
economic growth and over the next few
years.
>> Sure. So part of what we've seen over
the last six months is that this is
fundamentally a builder friendly
administration. We have a builder in the
White House and that's really been
reflected in the policies rolled out. Um
and um and so uh fundamentally the the
policies of the administration I would
argue have really amounted to shock
therapy to help facilitate uh building
in America as much as possible removing
roadblocks through deregulation
uh through lowering taxes and and
lowering the tax burden promoting
foreign investment in the US. Um, and so
ultimately, uh, the the job of the White
House is really to help empower builders
as much as possible, uh, and make
America the the best destination for
capital. And so, and and I believe that
we've fundamentally uh, already started
achieving that.
>> Amazing. And I I think your view of like
America can be a country potentially of
builders rather than just services is
also like really compelling in terms of
broader opportunity. David Sax and I
hosted not too long ago an AI summit
with the president and uh it was
incredibly inspiring to see the
president declare that America would win
the AI race. And in that statement he
acknowledged we were in a race and he
declared that America started the race
and we're going to win it. And it's
inspiring because in a way it was kind
of reminiscent to John F. Kennedy's um
uh moon speech. Um and so and and that's
the kind of optimism and bullishness uh
and uh and and boldness that frankly we
need from the White House. Uh and and
and it I think is is eminently reflected
in policy. I mean this is a probuilder
administration.
>> Great. Thank you Jacob.
>> Thanks so much for joining us.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.
[Music]